What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

When you initialize a repository, a .git directory is created with the necessary files for a repository.
You need to do this because you need a location to save meta data when committing. This location is within the .git directory. Also this will have the systems recognize the folder as a repository rather than a directory.

How is thee staging area different from the working directory and the respository? What value do you think it offers?

The staging area is merly a loaction of all the files that can potentially be committed, where as a respository stores the history of commits done on files.
I believe that it provides a opportunity to decide what files to incorpoarte into a specific commit.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

You can compare the changes being done to the files in the staging area to the files in the repository, if what is being changed in the files seem like one logical change then you can go ahead and commit the changes.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

Branches would be helpful when you want to experiment on different versions of a working project but do not fully want to incorperate it the working project until it works fully. Branches would allow for such changes without affecting the working main project.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

They can show you the parent to any commit made and demonstrate the entire path leading to the connecting commit of all other branches. They can also show you any inaccessible commits made.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

The result of merging is ability to connect worked out features to the main branch where a working project is stored. The demanstration, I believe, is stored in that way so that an individual could visualize the connected network between branches.